feat(ruby): Add metrics docs (#9415)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/ruby/common/metrics/index.mdx

---
title: Set Up Metrics
description: "Learn how to measure the data points you care about by configuring Metrics in your Ruby app."
---

<Include name="feature-stage-alpha-metrics.mdx" />
<Note>

> Metrics for Ruby are supported with Sentry Python SDK version `5.17.0` and above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics for Ruby are supported with Sentry Ruby SDK version `5.17.0` and above.
```
Assuming you mean Ruby not Python SDK

</Note>

Sentry metrics help you pinpoint and solve issues that impact user experience and app performance by measuring the data points that are important to you. You can track things like processing time, event size, user signups, and conversion rates, then correlate them back to tracing data in order to get deeper insights and solve issues faster.

> First, turn on metrics usage in the SDK as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, turn on metrics usage in the SDK as follows:
```

```ruby
Sentry::Metrics.distribution('page_load', 15.0, unit: 'millisecond', tags: { page: '/home' })
```

## Emit a Set

Sets are useful for looking at unique occurrences and counting the unique elements you added.

To emit a set, do the following:

```ruby
Sentry::Metrics.set('user_view', 'jane', unit: 'username')
```

## Emit a Gauge

Gauges let you obtain aggregates like `min`, `max`, `avg`, `sum`, and `count`. They can be represented in a more space-efficient way than distributions, but they can't be used to get percentiles. If percentiles aren't important to you, we recommend using gauges.

To emit a gauge, do the following:

```ruby
# Add '15.0' to a gauge used for tracking the loading times for a page.
Sentry::Metrics.gauge('page_load', 15.0, unit: 'millisecond')
```

## Emit a Timer

Timers can be used to measure the execution time of a specific block of code. They're implemented like distributions, but measured in seconds.

To emit a timer, do the following:

```ruby
# Measure the time of execution of the `process` method in milliseconds.
Sentry::Metrics.timing('how_long_ms', unit: 'millisecond') do
  process
end
```

## Code Locations

> The SDK will send code locations for unique metrics (defined by type, key and unit) once a day or once per startup/shutdown of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the SDK will send code locations for unique metrics (defined by type, key and unit) once a day and with every startup/shutdown of your application.
```
I'm assuming it's once a day and with each startup, but feel free to revert this if that's not the case!

You can turn this off with the following:

```ruby
Sentry.init do |config|
  # ...
  config.metrics.enable_code_locations = false
end
```

> ## Filtering / Modifying Tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Filtering and Modifying Tags
```

> You can filter some keys or update tags on the fly with the `before_emit` callback that will be triggered before a metric is aggregated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can filter some keys or update tags on the fly with the `before_emit` callback, which will be triggered before a metric is aggregated.
```
